Welcome back.
Let's have a look at the pros and cons of each.
First off interpreters are quick to get up and running right because if we go to our example with an
interpreter We don't have to convert this into a another language like language X like I showed you
with a compiler.
There's no compilation step before you can start running your code.
You just give this to an interpreter and the interpreter starts translating their first line and just
runs the code for us because of this.
An interpreter is a natural fit for something like Javascript.
Write a javascript file get sent from the server to the browser to the client on the front end.
And we want that JavaScript to execute right away because our users are going to be waiting on the web
page trying to interact with our application and JavaScript originally was created fro the browser.
So being able to interpret javascript and run it as fast as possible.
Well that was ideal.
And this is exactly why javascript used interpreters at the beginning but there's a con with using an
interpreter and this is the same problem that Google had back in the day when they had Google Maps running
a lot of javascript but it'll get slower and slower and slower because the problem with interpreters
is that when you're running the same code more than once.
For example if you're in a loop like this one over here where we're running this piece of code over
and over and over even though it gives us the same result it can get really really slow the compiler
actually helps us here.
It takes a little bit more time to start up because it has to go through that compilation step at the
beginning go through our code understand it and spit it out into a another language but the compiler
will be smart enough that when it sees code like this and this is obviously a simplified version of
it but if he sees code like this that we just loop over and it has the same inputs returning the same
outputs.
Well it can actually just simplified this code and instead of calling this function multiple times can
just replace this function with something like nine because we know that we want to return nine because
a compiler doesn't need to repeat the translation for each pass through in that loop the code generated
from it is actually faster and these sort of edits that compilers do are called optimization so let's
go back to that question interpreter or compiler which one is better.
They both have their pros and cons compiler obviously takes a little bit longer to get up and running
but the code is going to eventually run faster or interpreter.
That is really fast to get up and running but unfortunately doesn't do any optimizations.
Is there a way that we can get the best of both worlds and this is what some engineers came up with
in late 2000 and if we use Google as our example with the V8 engine what if we combine the best of both
worlds what if instead of using the compiler and interpreter we combine these two and create something
called a jet compiler or just in time.
Compiler and this is exactly what browser started doing browsers started mixing compilers specifically
these git compilers for just in time compilation to make the engines faster.
So let's see how V8 engine does this.
Underneath the hood in order to use the best of both worlds.
Remember we passed the code.
We turn it into an abstract syntax tree and then this code initially goes to an interpreter and by the
way again I'm showing you what the V8 engine does.
They're small changes in different engines but this is probably the best most optimum way to run the
JavaScript engine.
As I'm recording this video initially.
The code gets sent to the interpreter and in the V8 engine.
This is called ignition.
I know they have really cool sounding names to make them sound like they do things fast.
But this interpreter in the V8 engine is called ignition and it takes this SSD and it spits out bite
code.
I remember byte code is code that's not as low level as machine code but it's code that is able to be
interpreted by the JavaScript engine in order to run our programs.
So that's the first step.
But then we see over here that there's something called a profiler.
This old man that's checking out our code in this profiler also called a monitor monitors and watches
our code as it runs and makes notes on how we can optimize this code such as how many times it is being
run.
What types are used and how we can possibly optimize this and using this profiler as the code is running
through our interpreter which tells our browser what to do if the same lines of code are run a few times
we actually pass off some of this code to the compiler or a git compiler adjust in time compiler because
as the code is running the interpreter is going to say hey here's some code for you to optimize passes
it off to the compiler and the compiler as the application is running takes a code and compiles it or
modifies it.
So it does what you ask it to but trying to make optimizations so it runs faster and it then replaces
the sections where it could be improved of the bike code with optimized machine code so that code that
optimized code is used from that point on instead of the slower byte code.
So it mixes and matches things and it constantly runs through this loop.
And this means that the execution speed of Job's script code will be improving.
Right.
This means that the execution speed of the javascript code that we entered into the engine is going
to gradually improve.
Right.
Because the profiler in the compiler are constantly making updates and changes to our byte code in order
to be as efficient as possible so interpreter allows us to run the code right away.
And the compiler and profiler allows us to optimize this code as we're running.
That's where the name comes from git compiler.
Just in time compiler in this compiler for V8 is called turbo fan again a cool sounding name to make
it sound like things are going fast and by the way just a bit of a fun fact.
Previous versions of V8 engine actually used to JIT compilers with really cool sounding names but they
changed it to this method because there were some faster optimizations that they could do so why did
we just learn all of this.
You can write JavaScript without knowing any of this stuff and you'll be fine.
Now that we know how the engine works underneath the hood we can write more optimized code code that
the compiler can take and run it faster than our regular javascript.
And we also can use this knowledge to make sure that we don't confuse the compiler because the compiler
is imperfect it can make mistakes and it can try to optimize code that actually does the opposite.
And if it makes a mistake and it does something unexpected it does something called D optimization which
takes even longer time to reverted back to the interpreter.
So by learning this we're going to have a video coming up where we learn how to write optimize code
so that we help out this profiler and compiler to make sure that we're able to run the fastest code
possible and let's learn those optimizations.
But first let's talk about something quickly.
I'll see in the next video by.